---
title: A Cooperative Alternative
---

The Cooperative Cloud is a platform built by and for worked-owned technology
cooperatives which proposes a shared social and technical infrastructure for
the operation and management of free software applications. The project was
initiated by [Autonomic].

The project arose out of the understanding that technology cooperatives
continue to struggle to deliver free software solutions without relying on
monopolies such as Google, Microsoft and Amazon for technical infrastructure
and software tools. The contradictions of working with these abusive and
extractive forces brings the idea of offering an alternative into question.

[The technological crisis is a social crisis]. Therefore, building an
alternative digital future cannot be done without broad and meaningful
cooperation. The Cooperative Cloud project takes as its starting point, the
independent free software community standards, tools, approaches and governance
methods which make up the platform which cooperatives can make use of as part
of offering a real alternative.

The Cooperative Cloud should not be seen as a technical solution for a social
problem (i.e. "Big Tech"). We understsand that owning the common technological
means for delivering free software is only one part of the struggle to reclaim
technology today. If antitrust litigation dismantled the monopolies tomorrow,
we'd need our own organisations and robust technical capacity to fill the
resulting vacuum. From this perspective, the project can be seen as another
approach to building community power by focussing on the cooperative ways and
means of managing the free software applications on which so much of our lives
have come to rely on.

To learn more, please see the [Getting Started guide].

[autonomic]: https://autonomic.zone/
[the technological crisis is a social crisis]: https://vvvvvvaria.org/~decentral1se/w/organising/crisis.jpeg
[getting started guide]: getting-started/guide.md
